# Wallet - A Balatro Currency API Mod
This API streamlines the process of adding your own custom currency to Balatro.
## How to Use this API
Make sure to add the latest version of Wallet as a dependency to your mod. In your mod's metadata json file, add `"Wallet (>=1.1.0)"` to the list of dependencies.
Once you've finished that, you can initialize a currency as follows:
```lua
Wallet.Currency({
	key = "your_currency"
})
```
After that, a currency easing function and a few variables will automatically be initialized for you.
```lua
ease_modprefix_your_currency(mod, instant) -- Works exactly like ease_dollars but for your own currency
G.GAME.modprefix_your_currency -- The current amount of your own currency
G.GAME.modprefix_your_currency_buffer -- Similar to G.GAME.dollar_buffer and other buffers 
G.GAME.modprefix_your_currency_bankrupt_at
```
> [!NOTE]
> If you use an LSP (Language Server Protocol) for Balatro modding, your LSP will not recognize functions generated by this mod and
> it will tell you that these functions are undefined globals, even though they are defined.
> To fix this, add the following annotations to a separate file for LSP definitions.
> ```lua
> ---@param mod number
> ---@param instant? boolean
> function ease_modprefix_your_currency(mod, instant) end
> ```
> As a reminder, this file should **_NEVER_** be loaded.

With this mod installed, hovering over the amount of money you have with your cursor will show each of your currencies in a popup above your current money amount.

In addition, this mod also automatically handles calculation returns for currencies initialized with this mod.
Return `modprefix_your_currency = amount` from a calculate function to give the player that much of your currency.
You can also give permanent bonuses for your currency to playing cards by setting the following values on a playing card.
```lua
card.ability.perma_p_modprefix_your_currency -- Gives currency when scored
card.ability.perma_h_modprefix_your_currency -- Gives currency when held in hand at end of round
```
> [!WARNING]
> In order for these permanent bonuses to show up correctly on playing cards, you will have to add some entries to your localization file.
> See [this](https://github.com/Steamodded/smods/wiki/Localization) if you need help setting up a localization file.
> Inside `descriptions.Other`, add the following entries:
> ```lua
> p_modprefix_your_currency = {
> 	text = {
> 		-- your text here
> 		-- #1# here corresponds to card.ability.perma_p_modprefix_your_currency
> 	}
> },
> h_modprefix_your_currency = {
> 	text = {
> 		-- your text here
> 		-- #1# here corresponds to card.ability.perma_h_modprefix_your_currency
> 	}
> }
> ```

You can also make a center in the shop cost a custom currency by adding `currency_cost = key` to the center.
`key` must be the full key of a currency, including the mod prefix.

## Utility Functions

### `Wallet.mod_buffer(currency: string, amt: number)`
Safely adds `amt` to the given currency's buffer. `currency` must be a full key of an existing currency, including the mod prefix.
### `Wallet.mod_dollars_buffer(amt: number)`
Safely adds `amt` to `G.GAME.dollar_buffer`.
### `Wallet.reset_buffer(currency: string)`
With the correct timing, resets the given currency's buffer to 0. `currency` must be a full key of an existing currency, including the mod prefix.
### `Wallet.reset_dollars_buffer()`
With the correct timing, resets `G.GAME.dollar_buffer` to 0.
### `Wallet.reset_buffers(...: string)`
Simultaneously resets the given currencies' buffers to 0. Each argument passed into this function must be a full key of an existing currency, including the mod prefix.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Handling buffers correctly in a calculation return with the above methods should look something like this:
> ```lua
> local amt = card.config.extra.your_currency
> Wallet.mod_buffer("modprefix_your_currency", amt)
> return {
> 	modprefix_your_currency = amt,
> 	func = function()
>			Wallet.reset_buffer("modprefix_your_currency")
> 	end
> }
> ```
> Note the lack of an event in the func return. All of Wallet's reset buffer methods automatically add the event to reduce boilerplate.

The following function is for use with a custom `calc_cost` defined in your currency object.

### `Wallet.get_edition_extra_cost(card: Card) -> number`
Returns the cost modifier of the given card's edition, if it has one. Otherwise, returns 0.

## API Documentation: `Wallet.Currency`
This class has **no** class prefix.
- **Required Parameters**:
	- `key`
- **Optional Parameters**
	- `font = nil` Set this to the full key of a font to have it 
	- `starting_amount = 0` How much of this currency you start runs with.
	- `colour = G.C.MONEY` The primary colour associated with this currency.
	- `decrease_colour = G.C.RED` The colour associated with decreases in this currency.
	- `currency_prefix = "$"` Goes before the number whenever this currency is displayed.
	- `currency_suffix = ""` Goes after the number whenever this currency is displayed.
	- `currency_label = nil` Set to a localization key within `misc.dictionary` to have the corresponding text appear the suffix whenever this currency is displayed. Useful when you don't have a dedicated symbol for your currency.
	- `sfx_key = "coin1"` The sound effect played after any changes in this currency.
	- `scoring_sfx_key = "coin3"` This sound effect played after any changes in this currency as a result of calculation.
	- `echo_sfx_key = "coin6"` This sound effect is played during cashout and is intended to have a more echo-y effect.
	- `no_ui = nil` **_(ADVANCED)_** If set to true, will prevent this currency from showing up when hovering over your dollars. You should define your own visuals if this is set to true.

### Methods
- `pre_ease_func(self: Wallet.Currency, mod: number, instant: boolean) -> number?`
	- Return a number to preemptively modify the change in the currency.
- `post_ease_func(self: Wallet.Currency, mod: number, instant: boolean)`
	- Use this to add your own contexts related to changes in your currency.
- `custom_ease_func(self: Wallet.Currency, mod: number)`
	- **_(ADVANCED)_** Define this to manually control the animations associated with changes in this currency.
- `calc_cost(self: Wallet.Currency, card: Card, base_cost: number): number?`
	- Calculate any changes to a card's currency cost here. The card's cost will be set to the returned value, or `base_cost` if no value is returned from this function.